<h3> What are your thoughts on "thick mapping in the digital humanities," and how does it differ from "mapping?"</h3>

<p> Thick mapping allows for moving layers of exploration and analysis of humanistic questions that traditional mapping does not. It builds on base ideas of mapping with multi-media context, history, number crunching, connections to other matter, and ethical questions in a way that is exciting to me-- as I, since a child, have been digging to figure out "why" and "how," not only conceptually but in an embodied, spatial sense. That is why I love the references to "drilling down" at a certain place across space-time, "conjuring and caring for ghosts."  

Mapping is a way of representing space and presenting an argument about spatial relationships. In historical, colonial cartography, maps created and reified violent power structures. Maps today can still assert power structures such as settler colonialism through modern-day digital GIS, used for drilling oil or surveilling Black and Brown communities. 

Thick mapping seeks to subvert those power dynamics, both by introducing critical narratives and by "interrogating the very possibility of data, mapping, and cartographic representational practices." Thick mapping includes multiple layers and means of communicating "data," not only latitude and longitude points or polygons, but also photographs, videos, sketches, social media posts, and audio material. Thick mapping engages with critical resistance and "counter-mapping" projects, which defy traditional colonial representations of the earth and space through artistic renderings, analyses of the machinery of power, and centering of marginalized people and their narratives. </p>

<h3> How does the theory of "thick mapping" inform narratives that are influencing your life?</h3>

<p> It sounds gimmicky, but where I am today has largely been shaped by thick mapping (or a thick mapping project). My understanding of abolitionist theory and practice started to form while I was part of the Big Data for Justice Summer Institute at UCLA, a collaboration between DH and the Bunche Center for African American Studies, taught by Todd Presner and Isaac Bryan. In the class, we critically mapped arrest data, my group specifically analyzing how the City of LA criminalizes homelessness. We created a sliding map to compare the locations of arrests with those of homeless shelters, finding that shelters do not mitigate, and sometimes can amplify, arrests of unhoused people. We included videos and pictures calling attention to, as well as resisting, policing, videos from community organizations such as Los Angeles Community Action Network (LACAN), housed in Skid Row.

The thick mapped content of our project alone transformed how I understand and resist policing and incarceration structures, built to control, contain, and "racially banish" people (Roy). But more than that, the class itself practiced the ethics of "thick mapping" in that it centered the most impacted community members, Black, Indigenous, PoC, many of whom were formerly incarcerated or system impacted. These community organizers who were my classmates and teammates on these group projects. I learned as much from my fellow classmates as from our formal teachers. Everybody brought their wisdom and experience to the table, like the multiple voices and perspectives in a thick map. We were engaging in counter mapping and critical cartography, analyzing and subverting white settler colonial structures that exist within our society and educational institutions such as UCLA.

This class- experience- project- collaboration was the impetus for me to engage more deeply in abolitionist community organizing, both at UCLA and in the greater Los Angeles, with orgs such as JusticeLA and No UCPD Coalition. 

Beyond abolition, the theory of thick mapping speaks to a multitude of power structures and systems that shape how we think and interact with each other, and is a reminder that I have to stay vigilant and critical of pervasive forms of knowledge and tropes of understanding, as there are ceaseless places, media, and interpretations to uncover.</p>
